software engineering is the systematic application of engineering principles, methods and tools to the development and maintenance of high-quality software systems. it involves the design, development, testing development and maintenance of software products. 
software engineering has become increasingly significant in today's digital age. software engineering is of paramount importance in the technology industry, Information Technology relies heavily on software to manage and process vast amounts of data. software Engineering ensures that IT systems are efficient, allowing organizations to make the most of their technology investments also software engineering enables the development of custom software applications that meet these unique requirements.
key miletones in the evolution of software engineering: the first one is the need for the development technologies. this milestone was the origins of software engineering. the second milestone is the migration to the modeling approach of; here the goal is the development of models that support the construction of software, today it is a fundamental and necessary steps of all software development, the third milestone appears when software engineering need to develop projects in a more controlled way that is the process itselfs reaches the same importance that the artifacts generated during a project. the processes and the products have their own lifecycle that can be enhanced and controlled seperately.
phases of the software development cycles are;(i) Requirements;the phase is critical for converting the information gathered during the planning and analysis phase into clear requirements for the development teams (ii) design: this is where the original plan and vision are elaborated into a software design document. (iii) implentation: this is the phase where the development team members divide the project into software modules and turn thwe software requirements into code that makes the product (iv) Testing:the testing is conducted to perform validation to make sure the software is functioning well (v) Deployment: this is the phase where the final product is delivered to the intended user (vi) Maintenance; is the stage for further impropvement
waterfall is a sequential approach with distinct phases flowing downward  it methodologies include requirements phase, design phase, implementation phase, testing phase, deployment and maintenance phase with each phase completely wrapping up before the next phase begins while Agile is the iterative and incremental approached that focused on flexibility, collaboration and responding to change example include Lean Software Development (LSD), eXtreme programming (XP) 
Roles and responsibilities of software deverloper, quanlity assurance engineer and a project manager in a software engineering team; a software developer design, program, build, deploy and maintain software using many different skills and tools. quality assurance engineer develop tests that demonstrate how a product will react under expected and expected circumstances. software project manager assign task evaluate team's performance and provide guidiance throughout the software development process
common challenges faced by software engineers include changing requirements, tight deadlines and technical debt. strategies to be used include being efficient and time management
types of tesing; (i) unit testing; this where each unit of the software is being tested seperately (ii) integration; it is where comparism is made during the process of quality testing (iii) system tsting (iv) acceptance
prompt engineering is all about crafting questions or statements to get the best responses from AI models 
example ofclear, specific and concise is asking a question like"asking a chatbots examples of domestic animals"
